Introduction:
What is a graph? Do we use it a lot of times? Let’s think of an example: Facebook. The humongous network of you, your friends, family, their friends and their friends etc. are called as a social graph. In this "graph", every person is considered as a node of the graph and the edges are the links between two people. In Facebook, a friend of yours, is a bidirectional relationship, i.e., A is B's Friend => B is A's friend, so the graph is an Undirected Graph.

Nodes? Edges? Undirected? We’ll get to everything slowly.

Let’s redefine graph by saying that it is a collection of finite sets of vertices or nodes (V) and edges (E). Edges are represented as ordered pairs (u, v) where (u, v) indicates that there is an edge from vertex u to vertex v. Edges may contain cost, weight or length. The degree or valency of a vertex is the number of edges that connect to it. Graphs are of two types:
Undirected: Undirected graph is a graph in which all the edges are bidirectional, essentially the edges don’t point in a specific direction.

enter image description here

Directed: Directed graph is a graph in which all the edges are unidirectional. enter image description here

A weighted graph is the one in which each edge is assigned a weight or cost. Consider a graph of 4 nodes as shown in the diagram below. As you can see each edge has a weight/cost assigned to it. Suppose we need to go from vertex 1 to vertex 3. There are 3 paths.
1 -> 2 -> 3
1 -> 3
1 -> 4 -> 3

The total cost of 1 -> 2 -> 3 will be (1 + 2) = 3 units.
The total cost of 1 -> 3 will be 1 units.
The total cost of 1 -> 4 -> 3 will be (3 + 2) = 5 units.
enter image description here

A graph is called cyclic if there is a path in the graph which starts from a vertex and ends at the same vertex. That path is called a cycle. An acyclic graph is a graph which has no cycle.

A tree is an undirected graph in which any two vertices are connected by only one path. Tree is acyclic graph and has N - 1 edges where N is the number of vertices.
enter image description here

Graph Representation:

There are variety of ways to represent a graph. Two of them are:

Adjacency Matrix: An adjacency matrix is a V x V binary matrix A (a binary matrix is a matrix in which the cells can have only one of two possible values - either a 0 or 1). Element Ai,j is 1 if there is an edge from vertex i to vertex j else Ai,j is 0. The adjacency matrix can also be modified for the weighted graph in which instead of storing 0 or 1 in Ai,j we will store the weight or cost of the edge from vertex i to vertex j. In an undirected graph, if Ai,j = 1 then Aj,i = 1. In a directed graph, if Ai,j = 1 then Aj,i may or may not be 1. Adjacency matrix providers constant time access (O(1) ) to tell if there is an edge between two nodes. Space complexity of adjacency matrix is O(V2).